+++
# Project title.
title = "Sparse Models"

# Date this page was created.
date = 2021-08-25T00:00:00

# Project summary to display on homepage.
summary = "Competing sparse modeling methods."

# Tags: can be used for filtering projects.
# Example: `tags = ["Modelscape", "Sparse Models"]`
tags = ["Modelscape", "Sparse Models"]

# Optional external URL for project (replaces project detail page).
external_link = ""

# Slides (optional).
#   Associate this project with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references 
#   `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
slides = ""

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#url_custom = [{icon_pack = "fab", icon="twitter", name="Follow", url = "https://twitter.com/victorialdeleo"}]

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your project's folder. 
[image]
  # Caption (optional)
  caption = "Plot of predicted vs actual effects"
  
  # Focal point (optional)
  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
  focal_point = "Smart"
+++

Sparse methods, such as lasso regression, are attractive tools for modeling large datasets where there are many possible predictors. The limited number of non-zero predictors in such models are easier to interpret than dense methods. However, sparse models can be a poor choice when the data is generated by a system that is not truly sparse. One of the goals of the modelscape consortium is to compete modeling methods to determine best practices in application of these methods to biological and ecological applications.
